01.a-specify-metadata.md, before:

# Specification of metadata
This document describes the specification of your metadata. 
For people who intend to publish their metadata in B2FIND this is mandatory.
Also if you in the first instance not intend to publish metadata in EUDAT-B2FIND, we recommend to fill out the tables

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites

### Spreadsheet template
A template of the excel spreadsheet **Community-B2FIND_mapping.template.xlsx** comes with the training material. Please open it with an appropriate office program.  

## Specification
This is done by filling out the tabs in the above mentioned excel spreadsheet above. To illustrate this, we will take the use cases described in *README.md*.

### 0. Instructions
In the first tab you find the following instructions which we perform for the use case *fishProject* :

### 1. Generate a spreadsheet file for your use case 
Copy the template file into a new file, where in the new file name `Community` has to be replaced by the short name of the given community name and and the extension '.template' has to be removed, e.g. :
```sh
$ cp Community-B2FIND_template.xlsx fishproject-B2FIND.xlsx
```

### 2. Replacments in all sheets :
Replace <Community> and <commShortname> with the full or the short name of your community, respectively.
I.e. for our example replace in all tabs of ```fishproject-B2FIND.xlsx``` <Community> by `Fish project` and <commShortname> by `fishproject`.
> Note : <commShortname> must a lower case word, because it is used during the ingestion worklfow as parameter.
 
Replace <mdformat> with the OAI meta data format used.
We use Dublin Core as the OAI metadata format and substitute <mdformat> by the associated abbrevition `oai_dc`.

Edit dates 'YYMMDD' and adapt the version (default is V 0.1) in the tab names.

### 3. Adapt the content of the several sheets
#### 3.a. General information : 
This should be filled out by representatives of the community. The information here will be used to display and present the community in the B2FIND portal :


Open the tab **General Information** and provide the asked information :

| Name                  | Value                  | Comments                                                                    | Issues |
|-----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Contact Persons       | `Your name(s) and email(s)` | The persons can be asked by the B2FIND team                 |        |
| Community Shortname   | fishproject        | This is the name used in the B2FIND code and GUI                            |        |
| Community Longname    | Fisch Project            | This is the name used in the description part of the community              |        |
| Community Description | The great repository for research about fish, chips and other interesting science         | This text is used in the B2FIND portal for the description of the community |        |
| Community Homepage    | N/A | This is set as link in the Community Description                            |        |
| Community Logo        | https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/a2/42/e3/a242e361d6cc5883f6f5304ccea90c97.jpg | This logo is used in the B2FIND portal                                      |        |
| Community Portal      | N/A yet                |            |        |

#### 3.b. Harvesting : The information about OAI endpoints and 'appropriate' OAI subsets and meta data formats etc. (columns A-E) has to be given from community site. 

The status and numbers of the B2FIND ingestion (harvested, mapped and uploaded records) has to be filled out by the B2FIND team.  

#### 3.d. Mapping : 

For integration in B2FIND the first draft is filled out by the B2FIND team and then it will be iteratively updated and discussed with the representatives of the community.

Following the training this will be filled out while setting up and performing the mapping, as described in the modules [03. Mapping of Metadata](03.a-map-metadata.md) and [03.a Validating of Metadata](03.b-validate-metadata.md).

#### 3.c. Metadata Specification
Open the tab **Metadata Specification** and provide the asked information as far as known and available. This information is more complex and has to be answered and discussed subject by subject.

We go not in more detail here. But it is a good excercise to answer the questions for the *fishproject*.

Commit message:

Update and correct the module 'Specify Metadata'

01.a-specify-metadata.md, after:

# Specification of metadata
This document describes the specification of your metadata. 
For people who intend to publish their metadata in B2FIND this is mandatory.
Also if you in the first instance not intend to publish metadata in EUDAT-B2FIND, we recommend to fill out the tables

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites

### Spreadsheet template
A template of the excel spreadsheet **Community-B2FIND_mapping.template.xlsx** comes with the training material. Please open it with an appropriate office program.  

## Specification
This is done by filling out the tabs in the above mentioned excel spreadsheet above. To illustrate this, we will take the use cases described in *README.md*.

### 0. Instructions
In the first tab you find the following instructions which we perform for the use case *fishProject* :

### 1. Generate a spreadsheet file for your use case 
Copy the template file into a new file, where in the new file name `Community` has to be replaced by the short name of the given community or project and the extension '.template' has to be removed. 

As an example consider a project about fishes, which we will use in teh subfollowing modules of this training as a 'use case'. If we choose the project name `Fish Project' for this and a associated short name ( which has to be lower case and just one word ) `*fishproject*`, the associated spreadsheet is created as follows :
```sh
$ cp Community-B2FIND_template.xlsx fishproject-B2FIND.xlsx
```

### 2. Replacments in all sheets :
Open the spreadsheet with an appropriate office tool and perform the instructions given in the first table :

* Replace <Community> and <commShortname> with the full or the short name of your community, respectively.
I.e. for our example replace in all tabs of ```fishproject-B2FIND.xlsx``` <Community> by `Fish project` and <commShortname> by `fishproject`.
* Replace <mdformat> with the OAI meta data format used.
We use Dublin Core as the OAI metadata format and substitute <mdformat> by the associated OAI abbrevition `oai_dc`.
* Edit dates 'YYMMDD' and adapt the version (default is V 0.1) in the tab names.

### 3. Adapt the content of the several sheets
#### 3.a. General information : 
This should be filled out by representatives of the community. The information here will be used to display and present the community in the B2FIND portal :


Open the tab **General Information** and provide the asked information :

| Name                  | Value                  | Comments                                                                    |
|-----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Contact Persons       | `Your name(s) and email(s)` | The persons can be asked by the B2FIND team                 |
| Community Shortname   | fishproject        | This is the name used in the B2FIND code and GUI                            |
| Community Longname    | Fish Project            | This is the name used in the description part of the community  |
| Community Description | The great repository for research about fish, chips and other interesting science         | This text is used in the B2FIND portal for the description of the community |
| Community Homepage    | N/A | This is set as link in the Community Description                            |
| Community Logo        | https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/a2/42/e3/a242e361d6cc5883f6f5304ccea90c97.jpg | This logo is used in the B2FIND portal                                      |
| Community Portal      | N/A yet                |             |

#### 3.b. Harvesting : 
This corresponds to the module [Data Provider](02.a-configure-OAI-data_provider.md) and is only imperative if you intend to publish your metadata in EUDTA-B2FIND.  

Open the tab **Harvesting (YYMMDD)**.
The information about OAI endpoints and 'appropriate' OAI subsets and meta data formats etc. (columns A-E) has to be given from community site. 
The status and numbers of the B2FIND ingestion (harvested, mapped and uploaded records) has to be filled out by the B2FIND team.  

#### 3.c. Metadata Specification
While these fields does not have to be filled out mandatorily we recommend in any case to look at least to these questions and try to answer them.

Open the tab **Metadata Specification** and provide the asked information as far as known and available. This information is more complex and has to be answered and discussed subject by subject.

We go not in more detail here. But it is a good excercise to answer the questions for the *fishproject*.

#### 3.d. Mapping : 
This corresponds to the modules [03.a Mapping of Metadata](03.a-map-metadata.md) and [03.a Validating of Metadata](03.b-validate-metadata.md) and can only filled out when we reached this stage of teh training. 

Open the tab **Mapping (YYMMDD)**.
For integration in B2FIND the first draft is filled out by the B2FIND team and then it will be iteratively updated and discussed with the representatives of the community.
