01.a-generate-metadata.md, before:

# Generation of metadata
This document describes how formated metadata records can be generated from given raw information. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

## Prerequisites

### 1. Converting tools and some samples
For this a simple python script *md-convert.py* is provided
and examples of 'raw metadata' are given in the directory *samples*.
```sh
./md-convert.py -h
Usage: Usage : md-convert.py [options] SOURCE

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTDIR, --outdir=OUTDIR
                        output directory for Dublincore XML files
  -c MAPFILE, --config=MAPFILE
                        configure mapping on the fly and store in MAPFILE
  -d DELIMITER, --delimiter=DELIMITER
                        the delimiter used in the original data
  -m MAPFILE, --mapfile=MAPFILE
                        The file that specifies the mapping from original to
                        DC fields

ls samples
annotations.tsv  sample.csv  smallData.tsv
```

### 2. Install needed modules
If not already available assure that all needed modules are available as e.g. the module *dublincore*

```sh
./md-convert.py -h
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "./md-convert.py", line 8, in <module>
    from DublinCoreTerms import DublinCore
  File "/home/k204019/Projects/EUDAT/EUDAT-Training/B2FIND-Training/DublinCoreTerms.py", line 2, in <module>
    from dublincore import dublinCoreMetadata
ImportError: No module named dublincore

pip install dublincore
Requirement already satisfied (use --upgrade to upgrade): dublincore in /home/k204019/anaconda2/lib/python2.7/site-packages

export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/k204019/anaconda2/lib/python2.7/site-packages/
```

## Converting

In the following we will use the script ```sh md-convert.py``` to convert the comma or tabular seperated list of values in the directory ```sh samples``` to as DublinCore formated XML files.

### 1. Initial call of md-convert and creation of a mapfile
By call of teh script with the option -c <yourMapfile> you can during the programm execution enter for each input field a valid DublinCore element, e.g.

```sh
./md-convert.py -c mapfiles/mymapfile.cvs samples/sample.csv
Target field for Common name : dc:identifier
Target field for Scientific name : dc:title
Target field for Location : …
```

Alternatively you can create and edit a mapfile, whereby the seperator ´´´sh >´´´ is used to seperate the original field name and the target Dublincore element.
Finally the map file should look like :
 
```sh
head mapfiles/myMapFile.cvs
Scientific name > dc:title
Region of the Aquarium > dc:coverage
...
```

### 2. Subfollowing converting

With an existing mapfile the script can be called with the option ```sh -m MAPFILE```. Optiaonally an output directory for the generated XML files can be indicated by option ```sh -o OUTPATH```.

```sh
./md-convert.py -m mapfiles/myMapFile.cvs [ -o myOutPath ] samples/sample.csv
```

### 3. Check the results

The resulting XML files in ```sh myOutPath``` should now compatible to the DublinCore metadata format.

You can check this e.g. by one of the available XML validators, e.g. ```sh http://www.xmlvalidation.com/```.

Commit message:

Add images and further explanation to 02 (OAI) modules Recollect raw data and DC examples in directory samples

01.a-generate-metadata.md, after:

# Generation of metadata
This document describes how formated metadata records can be generated from given raw information. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

## Prerequisites

### 1. Converting tools and some samples
For this a simple python script *md-convert.py* is provided
and examples of 'raw metadata' are given in the directory *samples/RAW_data*.
```sh
./md-convert.py -h
Usage: Usage : md-convert.py [options] SOURCE

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTDIR, --outdir=OUTDIR
                        output directory for Dublincore XML files
  -c MAPFILE, --config=MAPFILE
                        configure mapping on the fly and store in MAPFILE
  -d DELIMITER, --delimiter=DELIMITER
                        the delimiter used in the original data
  -m MAPFILE, --mapfile=MAPFILE
                        The file that specifies the mapping from original to
                        DC fields

ls samples/RAW_data
annotations.tsv  sample.csv  smallData.tsv
```

### 2. Install needed modules
If not already available assure that all needed modules are available as e.g. the module *dublincore*

```sh
./md-convert.py -h
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "./md-convert.py", line 8, in <module>
    from DublinCoreTerms import DublinCore
  File "/home/k204019/Projects/EUDAT/EUDAT-Training/B2FIND-Training/DublinCoreTerms.py", line 2, in <module>
    from dublincore import dublinCoreMetadata
ImportError: No module named dublincore

pip install dublincore
Requirement already satisfied (use --upgrade to upgrade): dublincore in /home/k204019/anaconda2/lib/python2.7/site-packages

export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/home/k204019/anaconda2/lib/python2.7/site-packages/
```

## Converting

In the following we will use the script ```sh md-convert.py``` to convert the comma or tabular seperated list of values in the directory ```sh samples/RAW_data``` to as DublinCore formated XML files.

### 1. Initial call of md-convert and creation of a mapfile
By call of teh script with the option -c <yourMapfile> you can during the programm execution enter for each input field a valid DublinCore element, e.g.

```sh
./md-convert.py -c mapfiles/mymapfile.cvs samples/RAW_data/sample.csv
Target field for Common name : dc:identifier
Target field for Scientific name : dc:title
Target field for Location : …
```

Alternatively you can create and edit a mapfile, whereby the seperator ´´´sh >´´´ is used to seperate the original field name and the target Dublincore element.
Finally the map file should look like :
 
```sh
head mapfiles/myMapFile.cvs
Scientific name > dc:title
Region of the Aquarium > dc:coverage
...
```

### 2. Subfollowing converting

With an existing mapfile the script can be called with the option ```sh -m MAPFILE```. Optiaonally an output directory for the generated XML files can be indicated by option ```sh -o OUTPATH```.

```sh
./md-convert.py -m mapfiles/myMapFile.cvs [ -o myOutPath ] samples/RAW_data/sample.csv
```

### 3. Check the results

The resulting XML files in ```sh myOutPath``` should now compatible to the DublinCore metadata format.

You can check this e.g. by one of the available XML validators, e.g. ```sh http://www.xmlvalidation.com/```.
