01.b-generate-metadata.md, before:

# Generating metadata
This document describes how to generate formatted metadata records from data spreadsheet or CSV (comma separated values) formats.
Given metadata as a spreadsheet,  we need to convert it into valid xml files that conform with the Dublin Core specifications. These files can then be be mapped to facets in B2FIND.

## Prerequisites

### 1. Using the mdmanager.py Python script in *Generation* mode
All functionality needed to convert spreadsheet data into well-formatted xml files is provided by the [mdmanager.py](mdmanager.py) script. This functionality can be accessed by using the processing mode *g*, i.e. with the otption `--mode g` and by specifying a source file (the raw spreadsheet) using the option `-s SOURCE`. We will use the script in this manner in this part of the tutorial.
The usage and dependancies are described in detail in the corresponding paragraph in [00.mdmanager-script.md](00-mdmanager-script.md#modeGeneration). 

### 2. Use Cases: Some samples of raw data
Some examples of 'raw metadata', i.e. comma- and tab- seperated lists, exist in the directory *samples/RAW_data*.
```sh
ls samples/RAW_data
annotations.tsv  locations.tsv  sample.csv  smallData.tsv
```
Up to this moment, this part of the training has been fully tested with the comma separated lists in the file ```sample.csv```.

In the following, we show how you can convert comma- or tab- seperated files into valid XML files in the [DublinCore](http://dublincore.org/) metadata schema. Bellow we will elaborate on how several options that were mentioned previously can be used.

## 1. Generating multiple XML files in batch mode

### Goal 
To create multiple XML files in the 'Dublincore' metadata format, given a list of datasets as comma-separated values.

### Solution
For this part we use the python script `mdmanager.py` in the `g` mode and specify a source file using the `-s SOURCE`.  option.

### 1.2. Creating a mapfile
In the first step, we define the mapping of each field in the header line of the sample file
```sh
$ head -1 samples/RAW_data/sample.csv 
Common name,Scientific name,Location,Temperament,Diet,Water,Size,Region of the Aquarium,Breeding
```
to one of the DublinCore elements (see ```mapfiles/dcelements.txt```) or the DublinCore terms (see ```mapfiles/dcterms.txt```).

You are free to assign the original fields to any one of the DublinCore fields. The only fields that are mandatory are  ```dc:title``` and ```dc:identifier```. The value of the latter is used to build the filename of the generated XML record. 

Beside the mode (`--mode g` stands for generation) and the source (`-s FILE`, the path to the csv file) the following options are mandatory:
- ```-c COMMUNITY``` : a project or community name. Here, as in the rest of out training modules, we use the project name *fishproject* as an example.
- ```--mdprefix MDFORMAT``` : This is the target metadata schema of the *generation* mode. Here we choose *oai_dc*, i.e. the Dublincore metadata schema.

Optionally, a subset and the delimiter of the original source file can be specified.
- ```--mdsubset MDSUBSET``` : The subset that determines the sub directory in which the generated XML files reside. Default is the subset `SET_1`, here we choose `sample`, resulting in the sub directory `sample_1` of the output path.
- ```--verb DELIMITER```: specifies the delimiter by which the sample data are separated. By default, and in our example, the deliminator is set to a *comma*.

From these specific parameters, the name for the mapfile is built as ```mapfiles/<community>-<mdprefix>.csv```, and the output path is generated as ```oaidata/<community>-<mdprefix>/<mdsubset>_1```.  

The first time that the script is called, there will be no mapfile available. So you asked to enter a valid DublinCore element or term for each original header field:

```sh
./mdmanager.py --mode g -c fishproject -s samples/RAW_data/sample.csv --mdprefix oai_dc --mdsubset sample --verb comma
...
|- Generation started : 2016-10-18 17:51:34
 |- Original fields:
	['Common name', 'Scientific name', 'Location', 'Temperament', 'Diet', 'Water', 'Size', 'Region of the Aquarium', 'Breeding']
 |- Generate mapfile	mapfiles/fishproject-oai_dc.csv
Target field for Common name : dc:identifier
Target field for Scientific name : dc:title
Target field for Location : dcterms:spatial
Target field for Temperament : dc:type
Target field for Diet : dcterms:requires
Target field for Water : dcterms:medium
Target field for Size : dcterms:extent
Target field for Region of the Aquarium : dcterms:provenance
Target field for Breeding : dcterms:created
 |- Generate XML files in oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml
  |--> Compressiceps.xml
  |--> Frontosa.xml
  |--> GoldenJulie.xml
  |--> ConvictJulie.xml
  |--> PrincessCichlid.xml
  |--> Cylindricus.xml
  |--> Multi.xml
  |--> FiveBarCichlid.xml
```
> Note : The community name is given as *fishproject*. In all subsequent steps, the community name should not be changed. It denotes the owner of the data and is used to tie all subsequent steps together.
This command does not only generate the mapping file ```fishproject-oai_dc.csv```, but the mapping is excecuted and the associated XML files are written to the output directory ```oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/```.


### Excercise 2.1: Configure your own mapping

> Note : An issue that we deal with here is that of semantic mapping and homogenisation of a research-specific vocabulary to a common, restricted vocabulary or schema, such as DublinCore. The mapping in the example above is quite "formal". For instance `Diet` is mapped to `dcterms:requires`, even though the intention of the DublinCore consortium by introducing the field `requires` was most probably not in the sense that `a plant requires a specific diet`. So, if we want to cover these specific biological properties we have to add an extented shema, which covers the property `Diet`. 

Repeat the generation and do your own mapping by adapting the mapping rules in the mapfile to your needs. Below we demonstrate the contents of the mapfile. The seperator ```>``` is used to seperate the original field name and the target Dublincore element or term :
```sh
$ vi mapfiles/fishproject-oai_dc.csv
Common name>dc:identifier
Scientific name>dc:title
Location>dcterms:spatial
Temperament>dc:type
Diet>dcterms:requires
Water>dcterms:medium
Size>dcterms:extent
Region of the Aquarium>dcterms:provenance
Breeding>dcterms:created
```
 
### Excercise 2.2: Check and validate the XML file

Check the results, the generated XML files in the output directory ```oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/```. For example, the contents of one of the files that is generated using the above maping can be seen bellow:

```sh
less oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/Compressiceps.xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>

<metadata
    xmlns="http://example.org/myapp/"	
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
    xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
    xmlns:dcterms="http://purl.org/dc/terms/">

        <dc:identifier>Compressiceps</dc:identifier>
        <dc:title>Haplochromis compressiceps</dc:title>
        <dc:type>Territorial</dc:type>
        <dcterms:created>Hard</dcterms:created>
        <dcterms:extent>5 inches</dcterms:extent>
        <dcterms:medium>PH 7.0 - 8.0, Temp. 73 - 77 F</dcterms:medium>
        <dcterms:provenance>Bottom</dcterms:provenance>
        <dcterms:requires>Omnivore</dcterms:requires>
        <dcterms:spatial>Lake Tanganyika</dcterms:spatial>
</metadata>
```
You can check the files using an XML validator software, for instance ```sh http://www.xmlvalidation.com/```.

### Excercise 2.3: Generate metadata records for seismic metadata
Here the sample metadata are given in a tab separated ```tsv``` file, `locations.tsv`.


```sh
./mdmanager.py --mode g -c seisnet -s samples/RAW_data/locations.tsv [--mdprefix oai_dc] --mdsubset locations --verb tab

Version:  	2.0
Run mode:   	Generation
Start : 	2016-12-15 10:05:05


|- Generation started : 2016-12-15 10:05:05
 |- From tab-separated spreadsheet
	samples/RAW_data/locations.tsv
 |- with original fields (headline)
	['Project', 'Creators', 'Publisher', 'Subject', 'Created', 'Location-Coord', 'Location-Name']
 |- using existing mapfile	mapfiles/seisnet-oai_dc.csv
 |- generate XML files in oaidata/seisnet-oai_dc/locations_1/xml
  |--> TienshanPamirGeodynamicsProjectTIPAGE.xml
  |--> LakeTobaseismicnetwork-Sumatra-Indonesia.xml
........
```

As you can see, we already provide a mapfile `mapfiles/seisnet-oai_dc.csv` with rules to map the original fields to Dublincore elements and terms. Feel free to change this mapping as you please, and check the effect on the 25 resulting XML files in `oaidata/seisnet-oai_dc/locations_1/xml`.


<!--
## Use a metadata editor
If you want generate detailed metadata for each singele dataset you can use a metadata editor to edit and add each field 'by hand'.

While there are a lot of online tools available, we describe here the GFZ metadata editor available at
```sh http://pmd.gfz-potsdam.de/panmetaworks/metaedit/```
-->

Commit message:

Fixed Issue #14 : Questions & ambiguities in 01.b-generate-metadata.md

01.b-generate-metadata.md, after:

# Generating metadata
This document describes how to generate formatted metadata records from data spreadsheet or CSV (comma separated values) formats.
Given metadata as a spreadsheet,  we need to convert it into valid xml files that conform with the Dublin Core specifications. These files can then be be mapped to facets in B2FIND.

## Prerequisites

### 1. Using the mdmanager.py Python script in *Generation* mode
All functionality needed to convert spreadsheet data into well-formatted xml files is provided by the [mdmanager.py](mdmanager.py) script. This functionality can be accessed by using the processing mode *g*, i.e. with the otption `--mode g` and by specifying a source file (the raw spreadsheet) using the option `-s SOURCE`. We will use the script in this manner in this part of the tutorial.
The usage and dependancies are described in detail in the corresponding paragraph in [00.mdmanager-script.md](00-mdmanager-script.md#modeGeneration). 

### 2. Use Cases: Some samples of raw data
Some examples of 'raw metadata', i.e. comma- and tab- seperated lists, exist in the directory *samples/RAW_data*.
```sh
ls samples/RAW_data
annotations.tsv  locations.tsv  sample.csv  smallData.tsv
```
Up to this moment, this part of the training has been fully tested with the comma separated lists in the file ```sample.csv```.

In the following, we show how you can convert comma- or tab- seperated files into valid XML files in the [DublinCore](http://dublincore.org/) metadata schema. Bellow we will elaborate on how several options that were mentioned previously can be used.

## 1. Generating multiple XML files in batch mode

### Goal 
To create multiple XML files in the 'Dublincore' metadata format, given a list of datasets as comma-separated values.

### Solution
For this part we use the python script `mdmanager.py` in the `g` mode and specify a source file using the `-s SOURCE`.  option.

### 1.2. Creating a mapfile
In the first step, we define the mapping of each field in the header line of the sample file
```sh
$ head -1 samples/RAW_data/sample.csv 
Common name,Scientific name,Location,Temperament,Diet,Water,Size,Region of the Aquarium,Breeding
```
to one of the DublinCore elements (see ```mapfiles/dcelements.txt```) or the DublinCore terms (see ```mapfiles/dcterms.txt```).

You are free to assign the original fields to any one of the DublinCore fields. The only fields that are mandatory are  ```dc:title``` and ```dc:identifier```. The value of the latter is used to build the filename of the generated XML record. 

Beside the mode (`--mode g` stands for generation) and the source (`-s FILE`, the path to the csv file) the following options are mandatory:
- ```-c COMMUNITY``` : a project or community name. Here, as in the rest of out training modules, we use the project name *fishproject* as an example.
- ```--mdprefix MDFORMAT``` : This is the target metadata schema of the *generation* mode. Here we choose *oai_dc*, i.e. the Dublincore metadata schema.

Optionally, a subset and the delimiter of the original source file can be specified.
- ```--mdsubset MDSUBSET``` : The subset that determines the sub directory in which the generated XML files reside. Default is the subset `SET_1`, here we choose `sample`, resulting in the sub directory `sample_1` of the output path.
- ```--verb DELIMITER```: specifies the delimiter by which the sample data are separated. By default, and in our example, the deliminator is set to a *comma*.

From these specific parameters, the name for the mapfile is built as ```mapfiles/<community>-<mdprefix>.csv```, and the output path is generated as ```oaidata/<community>-<mdprefix>/<mdsubset>_1```.  

The first time that the script is called, there will be no mapfile available. So you asked to enter a valid DublinCore element or term for each original header field:

```sh
./mdmanager.py --mode g -c fishproject -s samples/RAW_data/sample.csv --mdprefix oai_dc --mdsubset sample --verb comma
...
|- Generation started : 2016-10-18 17:51:34
 |- Original fields:
	['Common name', 'Scientific name', 'Location', 'Temperament', 'Diet', 'Water', 'Size', 'Region of the Aquarium', 'Breeding']
 |- Generate mapfile	mapfiles/fishproject-oai_dc.csv
Target field for Common name : dc:identifier
Target field for Scientific name : dc:title
Target field for Location : dcterms:spatial
Target field for Temperament : dc:type
Target field for Diet : dcterms:requires
Target field for Water : dcterms:medium
Target field for Size : dcterms:extent
Target field for Region of the Aquarium : dcterms:provenance
Target field for Breeding : dcterms:created
 |- Generate XML files in oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml
  |--> Compressiceps.xml
  |--> Frontosa.xml
  |--> GoldenJulie.xml
  |--> ConvictJulie.xml
  |--> PrincessCichlid.xml
  |--> Cylindricus.xml
  |--> Multi.xml
  |--> FiveBarCichlid.xml
```
> Note : The community name is given as *fishproject*. In all subsequent steps, the community name should not be changed. It denotes the owner of the data and is used to tie all subsequent steps together.
This command does not only generate the mapping file ```fishproject-oai_dc.csv```, but the mapping is excecuted and the associated XML files are written to the output directory ```oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/```.


### Excercise 2.1: Configure your own mapping

> Note : An issue that we deal with here is that of semantic mapping and homogenisation of a research-specific vocabulary to a common, restricted vocabulary or schema, such as DublinCore. The mapping in the example above is quite "formal". For instance `Diet` is mapped to `dcterms:requires`, even though the intention of the DublinCore consortium by introducing the field `requires` was most probably not in the sense that `a plant requires a specific diet`. So, if we want to cover these specific biological properties we have to add an extented shema, which covers the property `Diet` or `Temparament` in this context. 

For this use case we search for metadata specification of `fish in lakes`. A good starting point to find an appropriate metadata specification is the overview over [Disciplinary Metadata provided by DCC](http://www.dcc.ac.uk/resources/metadata-standards). Just search in the area 'Biology' for a standard, which describes properties of fish in lakes. (To be honest it is hard to find a schema that covers properties as `Diet` or `Temperament`. But the standards `DarwinCore` or `EML` may at least cover some of the specific properties.)

Repeat the generation and do your own mapping by adapting the mapping rules in the mapfile to your needs. Below we demonstrate the contents of the mapfile. The seperator ```>``` is used to seperate the original field name and the target Dublincore element or term :
```sh
$ vi mapfiles/fishproject-oai_dc.csv
Common name>dc:identifier
Scientific name>dc:title
Location>dcterms:spatial
Temperament>dc:type
Diet>dcterms:requires
Water>dcterms:medium
Size>dcterms:extent
Region of the Aquarium>dcterms:provenance
Breeding>dcterms:created
```
 
### Excercise 2.2: Check and validate the XML file

Check the results, the generated XML files in the output directory ```oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/```. For example, the contents of one of the files that is generated using the above maping can be seen bellow:

```sh
less oaidata/fishproject-oai_dc/sample_1/xml/Compressiceps.xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>

<metadata
    xmlns="http://example.org/myapp/"	
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
    xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
    xmlns:dcterms="http://purl.org/dc/terms/">

        <dc:identifier>Compressiceps</dc:identifier>
        <dc:title>Haplochromis compressiceps</dc:title>
        <dc:type>Territorial</dc:type>
        <dcterms:created>Hard</dcterms:created>
        <dcterms:extent>5 inches</dcterms:extent>
        <dcterms:medium>PH 7.0 - 8.0, Temp. 73 - 77 F</dcterms:medium>
        <dcterms:provenance>Bottom</dcterms:provenance>
        <dcterms:requires>Omnivore</dcterms:requires>
        <dcterms:spatial>Lake Tanganyika</dcterms:spatial>
</metadata>
```
You can check the files using an XML validator software, for instance ```sh http://www.xmlvalidation.com/```.

### Excercise 2.3: Generate metadata records for seismic metadata
Here the sample metadata are given in a tab separated ```tsv``` file, `locations.tsv`.


```sh
./mdmanager.py --mode g -c seisnet -s samples/RAW_data/locations.tsv [--mdprefix oai_dc] --mdsubset locations --verb tab

Version:  	2.0
Run mode:   	Generation
Start : 	2016-12-15 10:05:05


|- Generation started : 2016-12-15 10:05:05
 |- From tab-separated spreadsheet
	samples/RAW_data/locations.tsv
 |- with original fields (headline)
	['Project', 'Creators', 'Publisher', 'Subject', 'Created', 'Location-Coord', 'Location-Name']
 |- using existing mapfile	mapfiles/seisnet-oai_dc.csv
 |- generate XML files in oaidata/seisnet-oai_dc/locations_1/xml
  |--> TienshanPamirGeodynamicsProjectTIPAGE.xml
  |--> LakeTobaseismicnetwork-Sumatra-Indonesia.xml
........
```

As you can see, we already provide a mapfile `mapfiles/seisnet-oai_dc.csv` with rules to map the original fields to Dublincore elements and terms. Feel free to change this mapping as you please, and check the effect on the 25 resulting XML files in `oaidata/seisnet-oai_dc/locations_1/xml`.


<!--
## Use a metadata editor
If you want generate detailed metadata for each singele dataset you can use a metadata editor to edit and add each field 'by hand'.

While there are a lot of online tools available, we describe here the GFZ metadata editor available at
```sh http://pmd.gfz-potsdam.de/panmetaworks/metaedit/```
-->
