02-install-jOAI.md, before:

# Installation of jOAI
The modules 2 and 3 will show you how to install and configure the underlying software and technology which is used by B2FIND.

This document describes how to install the jOAI software with which you can harvest OAI-PMH endpoints and with which you can offer an OAI-PMH endpoint. In the following two modules 02.a and 02.b we will explain how to configure the OAI-PMH data provider and harvester tool based on this software. jOAI will run within Apache Tomcat and we will use an Ubuntu machine to guide you through the examples. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

## Prerequisites

### 1. Update and upgrade if necessary
```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
### 2. Internet connection and browser
If you are using a VM, e.g. setup in VirtualBox Manager or in a cloud, you will need to configure the network to work in bridge mode (VM box). Furthermore an internet browser, e.g. firefox, should be installed on your computer.

If you are using a VM in a cloud environment you might want to configure the firewall:
- Install iptables-persistent
```sh
sudo apt-get install iptables-persistent
```

- Edit /etc/iptables/rules.v4:
```sh
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [4538:480396]
-A INPUT -m state --state INVALID -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp ! --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,ACK SYN -m state --state NEW -j DROP
-A INPUT -f -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG NONE -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG -j DROP
-A INPUT -p icmp -m limit --limit 5/sec -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j LOG
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
```

- Restart the firewall
```sh
/etc/init.d/iptables-persistent restart
```

##Installation

### 2. Download and unpack the jOAI Software
See http://www.dlese.org/dds/services/joai_software.jsp for details.

The current version can be downloaded from Sourceforge, e.g. as zip file

```sh
wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/dlsciences/files/jOAI%20-%20OAI%20Provider_Harvester/v3.1.1.4/joai_v3.1.1.4.zip
unzip joai_v3.1.1.4.zip
```

Note, unzip does not come by default with an Ubuntu server 14.04, you can install it with:
```sh
sudo apt-get install unzip
```

### 3. Install tomcat
In the INSTALL.txt of the jOAI package above it is recommended to download
the Tomcat server container from http://tomcat.apache.org/ .
But in most cases (and in case of Ubuntu version 12 and greater) you can use the pre-installed Tomcat package.  
The current version of tomcat is 7, but jOAI runs as well within tomcat6.
```sh
sudo apt-get install tomcat7
```

#### 3a. Tomcat trouble shooting
One known problem with tomcat is, that there are conflicts with other web servers, e.g. an apache, running on the same machine.
If you want run e.g. a CKAN instance in parallel, you must change the port of the connector in the file ```/etc/tomcat7/server.xml``` :
```sh
   <!-- Changed port 8080 to 8181 -->
    <Connector port="8181" protocol="HTTP/1.1"
               connectionTimeout="20000"
               URIEncoding="UTF-8"
               redirectPort="8443" />
```    
After restart of tomcat will jOAI run now on
```
http://localhost:8181/oai/
```
and CKAN still on ```localhost```.

For general **troubleshooting and Diagnostic techniques** we refer to
``` https://wiki.apache.org/tomcat/FAQ/Troubleshooting_and_Diagnostics ```

### 4. Add the web application jOAI to the Tomcat container
Place the file *oai.war* into the *webapps* directory found in your Tomcat installation directory. *webapps* is the default location where Tomcat searches for web applications.
```sh
sudo cp joai_v3.1.1.4/oai.war /var/lib/tomcat7/webapps/
```

During the first start tomcat will unpack the application *oai*.

### 5. Install the Java Platform, Standard Edition v5 or later
Tomcat needs the Java Run Time environment (JRE).
Often this is already preinstalled on ubuntu by apt-get update.

You can check the instalation (path) e.g. by 
```sh
readlink -f $(which java)
``` 
If java is not installed, install at least JRE :
```sh
sudo apt-get install default-jdk
```
or for the latest java version execute:
```sh
sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer
```

Finally set the environment variable JRE_HOME, e.g. 
```sh
JRE_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64/jre/bin/java
```
or 

```sh
JRE_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-oracle/jre/bin/java
```
in your ```sh ~/.bashrc```

## 6. Start Tomcat 

Try to start tomcat by
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 start
```

To stop, start and restart tomcat you can use the follwing command:
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 <stop, start, restart>
```

If you now enter in an internet browser
```sh
localhost:8080
```
and all works fine you should see a page showing **'It works'** and the graphical user interface of the web application joi should be opened by 
```sh
localhost:8080/oai
```

When you are working remotely on a server you can access the web interface by
```sh
http://<server url>:8080/oai/
```

<img align="centre" src="img/jOAI_Overview.png" width="800px">

Congratultaions !

Now you can configure and use your OAI-PMH provider and harvester
as described in 01-configure-your-OAI-server

## 7. Repository configuration
You should do some basic configurations at the beginning.

On the entry page Section *Overview* click the button **Set up the Provider**. On page *Data Provider Documentation* you will find a lot of information we will need in teh next modul. 

For now we click on the link **Repository information**. Here you can add information describing your repository. (Allways use the questionmark buttons to get more detailed inforamtion about the fields).

<img align="centre" src="img/jOAI_EditRepositoryInfo.png" width="800px">

Note : For now we don't specify the optional `Namespace identifier`.

Commit message:

Instructions for tomcat/apache and remote servers
Homogenising the instructions with respect to tomcat/apache installation on the same server and adding descriptions how things can be checked on a remote server.

02-install-jOAI.md, after:

# Installation of jOAI
The modules 2 and 3 will show you how to install and configure the underlying software and technology which is used by B2FIND.

This document describes how to install the jOAI software with which you can harvest OAI-PMH endpoints and with which you can offer an OAI-PMH endpoint. In the following two modules 02.a and 02.b we will explain how to configure the OAI-PMH data provider and harvester tool based on this software. jOAI will run within Apache Tomcat and we will use an Ubuntu machine to guide you through the examples. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

## Prerequisites

### 1. Update and upgrade if necessary
```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
### 2. Internet connection and browser
If you are using a VM, e.g. setup in VirtualBox Manager or in a cloud, you will need to configure the network to work in bridge mode (VM box). Furthermore an internet browser, e.g. firefox, should be installed on your computer.

If you are using a VM in a cloud environment you might want to configure the firewall:
- Install iptables-persistent
```sh
sudo apt-get install iptables-persistent
```

- Edit /etc/iptables/rules.v4:
```sh
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [4538:480396]
-A INPUT -m state --state INVALID -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp ! --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,ACK SYN -m state --state NEW -j DROP
-A INPUT -f -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG NONE -j DROP
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG FIN,SYN,RST,PSH,ACK,URG -j DROP
-A INPUT -p icmp -m limit --limit 5/sec -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j LOG
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
```

- Restart the firewall
```sh
/etc/init.d/iptables-persistent restart
```

##Installation

### 2. Download and unpack the jOAI Software
See http://www.dlese.org/dds/services/joai_software.jsp for details.

The current version can be downloaded from Sourceforge, e.g. as zip file

```sh
wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/dlsciences/files/jOAI%20-%20OAI%20Provider_Harvester/v3.1.1.4/joai_v3.1.1.4.zip
unzip joai_v3.1.1.4.zip
```

Note, unzip does not come by default with an Ubuntu server 14.04, you can install it with:
```sh
sudo apt-get install unzip
```

### 3. Install tomcat
In the INSTALL.txt of the jOAI package above it is recommended to download
the Tomcat server container from http://tomcat.apache.org/ .
But in most cases (and in case of Ubuntu version 12 and greater) you can use the pre-installed Tomcat package.  
The current version of tomcat is 7, but jOAI runs as well within tomcat6.
```sh
sudo apt-get install tomcat7
```

#### 3a. Tomcat trouble shooting
One known problem with tomcat is, that there are conflicts with other web servers, e.g. an apache, running on the same machine.
If you want run e.g. a CKAN instance in parallel, you must change the port of the connector in the file ```/etc/tomcat7/server.xml``` :
```sh
   <!-- Changed port 8080 to 8181 -->
    <Connector port="8181" protocol="HTTP/1.1"
               connectionTimeout="20000"
               URIEncoding="UTF-8"
               redirectPort="8443" />
```    
After restart of tomcat will run on
```
sudo service tomcat7 start
http://localhost:8181/
```
or when you work on a remote server (VM)

```
http://<ip-address or fully qualified domain name>:8081/
```
**Since we will deploy CKAN, which makes use of apache, we advise you to use port 8181.**

For general **troubleshooting and Diagnostic techniques** we refer to
``` https://wiki.apache.org/tomcat/FAQ/Troubleshooting_and_Diagnostics ```

### 4. Add the web application jOAI to the Tomcat container
Place the file *oai.war* into the *webapps* directory found in your Tomcat installation directory. *webapps* is the default location where Tomcat searches for web applications.
```sh
sudo cp joai_v3.1.1.4/oai.war /var/lib/tomcat7/webapps/
```

During the first start tomcat will unpack the application *oai*.

### 5. Install the Java Platform, Standard Edition v5 or later
Tomcat needs the Java Run Time environment (JRE).
Often this is already preinstalled on ubuntu by apt-get update.

You can check the instalation (path) e.g. by 
```sh
readlink -f $(which java)
``` 
If java is not installed, install at least JRE :
```sh
sudo apt-get install default-jdk
```
or for the latest java version execute:
```sh
sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer
```

Finally set the environment variable JRE_HOME, e.g. 
```sh
JRE_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64/jre/bin/java
```
or 

```sh
JRE_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-oracle/jre/bin/java
```
in your ```sh ~/.bashrc```

## 6. Start Tomcat 

Try to start tomcat by
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 start
```

To stop, start and restart tomcat you can use the follwing command:
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 <stop, start, restart>
```

If you now enter in an internet browser
```sh
<localhost>:8181
```
or
```
<ip address or fully qualified domain name>:8181
```
and all works fine you should see a page showing **'It works'** and the graphical user interface of the web application jOAI should be opened by 
```sh
localhost:8181/oai
```
or
```sh
http://<ip-address or fully qualified domain name>:8181/oai/
```

<img align="centre" src="img/jOAI_Overview.png" width="800px">

Congratultaions !

Now you can configure and use your OAI-PMH provider and harvester
as described in 01-configure-your-OAI-server

## 7. Repository configuration
You should do some basic configurations at the beginning.

On the entry page Section *Overview* click the button **Set up the Provider**. On page *Data Provider Documentation* you will find a lot of information we will need in teh next modul. 

For now we click on the link **Repository information**. Here you can add information describing your repository. (Allways use the questionmark buttons to get more detailed inforamtion about the fields).

<img align="centre" src="img/jOAI_EditRepositoryInfo.png" width="800px">

Note : For now we don't specify the optional `Namespace identifier`.
