02.a-configure-OAI-data_provider.md, before:

# Configuration of an OAI Data Provider
This document describes how to configure your own OAI-PMH data provider based on a joai installation. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites
### 1. joai software is installed and running in an Apache Tomcat.
See 00-install-jOAI.md for details.
### 2. Some XML files in a known OAI metadata format

## Configuration
### 1. Configuration and custumization
Open the GUI of joai by :

´´´sh
http://localhost/oai
´´´
Go in the menue `Data Provider` to `Metadata Files Configuration` and fill out the text fields :

![Metadata Files Configuration](http://www.ands.org.au/__data/assets/image/0003/391323/joai-3.png "Metadata Files Configuration")


* Nickname for these files : Just a label, that describes the content of your metadata ...
* Format of files : The metadata format for the files, e.g. `oai_dc` for *Dublin Core Format*
* Path to the directory : Location of the XML files
* Metadata schema: The URL of the associated MD schema (is automatically filled out, if a known OAI metadata format is specified as e.g. `oai_dc`

Commit message:

Add images and further explanation to 02 (OAI) modules Recollect raw data and DC examples in directory samples

02.a-configure-OAI-data_provider.md, after:

# Configuration of an OAI Data Provider
This document describes how to configure your own OAI-PMH data provider based on a joai installation. 

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites
### 1. joai software is installed and running in an Apache Tomcat.
See 00-install-jOAI.md for details.
### 2. Admin account
If you start the provider set up you are prompted to login as user *admin*. By default the password is set as well to *admin*.
<!-- Is this true ??
Describe how to change the password !!!
--> 
### 3. Some XML files in a known OAI metadata format
You can use here the generated DublinCore XML files generated in modul 01 or the samples in directory ```sh samples/DC_examples/ ```.

## Configuration
### 1. Configuration and custumization
Open the GUI of joai at ```sh http://localhost/oai ``` and
go in the menue `Data Provider` to `Metadata Files Configuration` and fill out the text fields :

<img align="centre" src="img/jOAI_AddMDDirectory.png" width="800px">

* Nickname for these files : Just a label, that describes the content of your metadata ...
* Format of files : The metadata format for the files, e.g. `oai_dc` for *Dublin Core Format*
* Path to the directory : Location of the XML files
* Metadata schema: The URL of the associated MD schema (is automatically filled out, if a known OAI metadata format is specified as e.g. `oai_dc`
