04-install-CKAN.md, before:

# Install CKAN
This document describes how to install the CKAN software.
Detailed docs are provided at http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/installing/install-from-package.html.

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites

### 1. Python
* Python 2.7 or later

### 2. Updated package index
```sh
sudo apt-get update
```


## Installation

We refer to the documentation [Installing CKAN from package](http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/installing/) but allthough we repeat the main steps and the tricky pitfally here.

### 1. Ubuntu packages
```sh
sudo apt-get install -y nginx apache2 libapache2-mod-wsgi libpq5 redis-server git-core
```

### 2. Download the CKAN package:
On Ubuntu 14.04
```sh
wget http://packaging.ckan.org/python-ckan_2.5-trusty_amd64.deb
```
On Ubuntu 12.04:
```sh
wget http://packaging.ckan.org/python-ckan_2.5-precise_amd64.deb
```

### 3. Install the CKAN package:

On Ubuntu 14.04:
```sh
sudo dpkg -i python-ckan_2.5-trusty_amd64.deb
```
On Ubuntu 12.04:
```sh
sudo dpkg -i python-ckan_2.5-precise_amd64.deb
```


### 3. Install PostgreSQL

```sh
sudo apt-get install -y postgresql solr-jetty
```

### 4. Setup Solr
CKAN uses Solr as its search platform, and uses a customized Solr schema file that takes into account CKAN’s specific search needs. Now that we have CKAN installed, we need to install and configure Solr.

Edit the Jetty configuration file ```/etc/default/jetty``` and change the following variables:

```sh
# change to 0 to allow Jetty to start
NO_START=0            # (line 4)
JETTY_HOST=127.0.0.1  # (line 16)
JETTY_PORT=8983       # (line 19)
```

and start the Jetty server:
```sh
sudo service jetty start
```

You should now see a welcome page from Solr if you open ```http://localhost:8983/solr/``` in your web browser (replace localhost with your server address if needed).

> Trobleshooting :
> 1. If you get the message ```Could not start Jetty servlet engine because no Java Development Kit (JDK) was found.``` you will have to edit the JAVA_HOME setting in ```/etc/default/jetty``` to point to your machine’s JDK install location. 
> For example:
```sh
JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk-amd64/
```
> 2. Another error maybe a `HTTP ERROR 500` saying that `JSP support not configured`. In this case you have to ...!!! 

Replace the default ```schema.xml``` file with a symlink to the CKAN schema file included in the sources.
```sh
sudo mv /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml.bak
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/ckan/default/src/ckan/ckan/config/solr/schema.xml /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml
```
Now restart Solr:
```sh
sudo service jetty restart
```
and check that Solr is running by opening http://localhost:8983/solr/.

### 5. Setup a PostgreSQL database
List existing databases:
```sh
sudo -u postgres psql -l
```
Check that the encoding of databases is UTF8, if not internationalisation may be a problem. Since changing the encoding of PostgreSQL may mean deleting existing databases, it is suggested that this is fixed before continuing with the CKAN install.

Next you’ll need to create a database user if one doesn’t already exist. Create a new PostgreSQL database user called ckan_default, and enter a password for the user when prompted. You’ll need this password later:
```sh
sudo -u postgres createuser -S -D -R -P ckan_default
```
Create a new PostgreSQL database, called ckan_default, owned by the database user you just created:
```sh
sudo -u postgres createdb -O ckan_default ckan_default -E utf-8
```

Finally you have to reset *USERNAME:PASSWORD* by the above specified database user and password and *HOST* by ```localhsot``` and *DBNAME* by the name of the postgres database in the line
```sh
sqlalchemy.url = postgres://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST/DBNAME
``` in the configuration file ```/etc/ckan/default/production.ini```.

### 8. Update the configuration and initialize the database
Edit the CKAN configuration file ```/etc/ckan/default/production.ini``` to set up the following options:

Each CKAN site should have a unique ```site_id``` and provide the URL in ```site_url```, for example:
```sh
ckan.site_id = demo
ckan.site_url = http://demo.ckan.org
```

Initialize your CKAN database by running this command in a terminal:
```sh
sudo ckan db init
```

### 7. Restart Apache and Nginx
Restart Apache and Nginx by running this command in a terminal:

```sh
sudo service apache2 restart
sudo service nginx restart
```

### 8. You’re done!
Open ```http://localhost``` in your web browser. You should see the CKAN front page, which will look something like this:

<!-- figure follows -->

> Troubleshooting :
> If your tomcat for teh OAI server runs on teh same machine, this will not work in parallel. Please decide which service you want use and stop the other e.g. by
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 stop
```

Commit message:

Trouble shooting for HTTP ERROR 500 and remote servers
for HTTP ERROR 500 and remote servers

04-install-CKAN.md, after:

# Install CKAN
This document describes how to install the CKAN software.
Detailed docs are provided at http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/installing/install-from-package.html.

## Environment
Ubuntu 14.04 server

##Prerequisites

### 1. Python
* Python 2.7 or later

### 2. Updated package index
```sh
sudo apt-get update
```


## Installation

We refer to the documentation [Installing CKAN from package](http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/installing/) but allthough we repeat the main steps and the tricky pitfally here.

### 1. Ubuntu packages
```sh
sudo apt-get install -y nginx apache2 libapache2-mod-wsgi libpq5 redis-server git-core
```

### 2. Download the CKAN package:
On Ubuntu 14.04
```sh
wget http://packaging.ckan.org/python-ckan_2.5-trusty_amd64.deb
```
On Ubuntu 12.04:
```sh
wget http://packaging.ckan.org/python-ckan_2.5-precise_amd64.deb
```

### 3. Install the CKAN package:

On Ubuntu 14.04:
```sh
sudo dpkg -i python-ckan_2.5-trusty_amd64.deb
```
On Ubuntu 12.04:
```sh
sudo dpkg -i python-ckan_2.5-precise_amd64.deb
```


### 3. Install PostgreSQL

```sh
sudo apt-get install -y postgresql solr-jetty
```

### 4. Setup Solr
CKAN uses Solr as its search platform, and uses a customized Solr schema file that takes into account CKAN’s specific search needs. Now that we have CKAN installed, we need to install and configure Solr.

Edit the Jetty configuration file ```/etc/default/jetty``` and change the following variables:

```sh
# change to 0 to allow Jetty to start
NO_START=0            # (line 4)
JETTY_HOST=127.0.0.1  # (line 16)
# When working on a remote machine
JETTY_HOST=<fqdn or IP>
JETTY_PORT=8983       # (line 19)
```

and start the Jetty server:
```sh
sudo service jetty start
```

You should now see a welcome page from Solr if you open ```http://localhost:8983/solr/``` in your web browser (replace localhost with your server address if needed).

> Trobleshooting :
> 1. If you get the message ```Could not start Jetty servlet engine because no Java Development Kit (JDK) was found.``` you will have to edit the JAVA_HOME setting in ```/etc/default/jetty``` to point to your machine’s JDK install location. 
> For example:
```sh
JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk-amd64/
```
> 2. Another error maybe a `HTTP ERROR 500` saying that `JSP support not configured`. This might happen on Ubuntu machines.
```
wget https://launchpad.net/~vshn/+archive/ubuntu/solr/+files/solr-jetty-jsp-fix_1.0.2_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i solr-jetty-jsp-fix_1.0.2_all.deb
sudo service jetty restart
```


Replace the default ```schema.xml``` file with a symlink to the CKAN schema file included in the sources.
```sh
sudo mv /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml.bak
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/ckan/default/src/ckan/ckan/config/solr/schema.xml /etc/solr/conf/schema.xml
```
Now restart Solr:
```sh
sudo service jetty restart
```
and check that Solr is running by opening http://localhost:8983/solr/.

### 5. Setup a PostgreSQL database
List existing databases:
```sh
sudo -u postgres psql -l
```
Check that the encoding of databases is UTF8, if not internationalisation may be a problem. Since changing the encoding of PostgreSQL may mean deleting existing databases, it is suggested that this is fixed before continuing with the CKAN install.

Next you’ll need to create a database user if one doesn’t already exist. Create a new PostgreSQL database user called ckan_default, and enter a password for the user when prompted. You’ll need this password later:
```sh
sudo -u postgres createuser -S -D -R -P ckan_default
```
Create a new PostgreSQL database, called ckan_default, owned by the database user you just created:
```sh
sudo -u postgres createdb -O ckan_default ckan_default -E utf-8
```

Finally you have to reset *USERNAME:PASSWORD* by the above specified database user and password and *HOST* by ```localhsot``` and *DBNAME* by the name of the postgres database in the line
```sh
sqlalchemy.url = postgres://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST/DBNAME
``` in the configuration file ```/etc/ckan/default/production.ini```.

### 8. Update the configuration and initialize the database
Edit the CKAN configuration file ```/etc/ckan/default/production.ini``` to set up the following options:

Each CKAN site should have a unique ```site_id``` and provide the URL in ```site_url```, for example:
```sh
ckan.site_id = demo
ckan.site_url = http://demo.ckan.org
```

Initialize your CKAN database by running this command in a terminal:
```sh
sudo ckan db init
```

### 7. Restart Apache and Nginx
Restart Apache and Nginx by running this command in a terminal:

```sh
sudo service apache2 restart
sudo service nginx restart
```

### 8. You’re done!
Open ```http://localhost``` in your web browser. You should see the CKAN front page, which will look something like this:

<!-- figure follows -->

> Troubleshooting :
> If your tomcat for teh OAI server runs on teh same machine, this will not work in parallel. Please decide which service you want use and stop the other e.g. by
```sh
sudo service tomcat7 stop
```
