05.e-B2FIND-CKANAPI.md, before:

# B2FIND and the CKAN API

In this section we will show you how you can use the general python ckanqpi to do simple queries in the B2FIND catalogue.
Please note,  the same API can also be employed to create documents in a CKAN instance. this is out of the scope of this tutorial, please refer to the general [ckanapi]()

## Prerequisites

You need a python compiler, perferably python 2.7.

You can install the **ckanapi** with:

```
pip install ckanapi
```
or 
```
easy_install ckanapi
```

## Simple queries

First we need to connect to the CKAN end-point, here we connect to the B2FIND catalogue.

```python
from ckanapi import RemoteCKAN
ckan = RemoteCKAN("http://b2find.eudat.eu")
```

All searches are executed using the function *call_action*. This function uses the keywords from the CKAN API.
I.e. when you would use 

```
http://b2find.eudat.eu/api/3/action/<action>
```
in a browser or as input for curl you can translate it to

```python
ckan.call_action('<action>')
```
in python.

**Example** To list all communities (CKAN groups) you can use
```python
ckan.call_action('group_list')
```

**Excercise**
- List all tags (this results in a very long list, store the list appropriately). How many tags are there? (Aug 2016: 37604)

- List all entries (packages) in B2FIND, this command might take some time. How many could you find? (Aug 2016: 453646)


## Free text and facetted search

Facetted and free text searches can be executed with the keyword 'package_search' for which we need a second argument, denoting the values to search for.

For free text search we can use the following statement:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast'})
```
which returns a python dictionary.
We will have a closer look at the structure of the output later. For now use
```
response['count']
```
to get the number of hits.

For a facetted search we use the key 'fq':
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']
```

And of course we can combine queries:
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']
```

Recall, to search for a certain region we used:

```
curl http://b2find.eudat.eu/api/3/action/package_search -d '
    { "extras": 
    { "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0" } 
    }'
```
This translates to
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search', {
    "extras":{
        "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0"
        }
    }
)
response['count']
```
in python and we can combine this parameter easily with the two search parameters above, since they use dofferent keys.

## Combined facetted search
We have seen how we can search across B2FIND with with simple searches. But what do we have to do when we want to combine parameters for different facets?

Where is actually the problem?

**Exercise**
Compare the output of the two queries and explain what happens in python internally.
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen", 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']

response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"groups:pdc",  "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen"})
response['count']
```
The query is the same, however, the order of the key-value pairs determines the result.
In fact the two queries are equivalent to:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']

response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen"})
response['count']
```

### Solution 1
Inspect the output of a simple query and refine your query results using this structure.

### Solution 2
**TODO** Solution to combine facets.

## The query response
Now let us have a closer look at the python dictionary such a query returns.

It consists of five entries.
```python
response.keys()
```

### Some basic statistics
We have already used the key *count*, which returns the number of documents found.
The key *sort* tells us how the documents are sorted in the output.
The key *results* contains all entries found. We will have a look at them later. First, we would like to draw your attention to *facet* and *search_facet*.
These two fields are empty for our queries above.
Let us inspect these two entrie for the query below:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{
    'fq':'Discipline:Linguistics',
    'facet.field':['author', 'Language'],
    'facet.limit':10
    })
```

We search for documents from the Discipline *linguistics* and we are interested in which *Languages* we find and which authors published the documents.
To do so, we give an extra parameter *facet.field* which is a python list and contains the names of two other facet *author* and *Discipline*.
The *facet.limit* gives the number of the top hits (default = 1).

We see that most of the documents are published in *Dutch*, followed by *German* and that the most active authors are *Sotaro Kita* and *Amanda Brown*.
Note, that the two facets in *facet.field* are not joint, i.e. the documents falling under *Dutch* do not necessarily have an author from the list of top 10 authors.

The result under 
```python
response['search_facets']
```
gives us the same extra information namely *count*, *display_name* and *name*.

We can use these two fields to retrieve some statistics on our result.

### The documents output
Now we will inspect the *results* field of our response. From the value in 
```python
response['sort']
```
we know that the most recent documents lead the list.
Let us inspect the first document:

```
doc = response['results'][0]
doc.keys()
```

With these keys python dictionary and list comprehensions you can refine your search results.
**Example: refine search**

Let us take the example:

> A scientist is interested in research data on polar coasts.
> She knows that the 'Polar Data Catalogue' offers access
> to this kind of data. Furthermore, she knows that her colleague Dustin published
> some interesting datasets about this topic in the past 26 years.
> In the first step she restricts the search result on research concerning coasts
> to the 20th century. In the second step she filters for studies on a particular
> coastal region at the northern boarder between Alaska and Canada.   

First, we search in CKAN directly:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search', {
    "q":"coast",
    "fq":"groups:pdc",
    "extras":{
        "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0",
        "ext_startdate" : "1990-01-01T00:00:00Z", 
        "ext_enddate" : "2016-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
    'facet.field':['author', 'Discipline'],
    'facet.limit':10
    }
)
print "Number of entries:", response['count']
print "Top 10 authors and Disciplines \n", response['facets']
```

We see that all hits belong to the same *Community* and that there is an author *Dustin Whalen* who published several documents.

Let us filter these documents.
Since he published under the name *Whalen, Dustin* and *Dustin Whalen* we need to check for both names.

```python
results = [item for item in response['results'] 
    if 'Whalen, Dustin' in item['author'] or
    'Dustin Whalen' in item['author']]
len(results)
```

Commit message:

Resolve issue with multiple facets in 'fq'

05.e-B2FIND-CKANAPI.md, after:

# B2FIND and the CKAN API

In this section we will show you how you can use the general python ckanqpi to do simple queries in the B2FIND catalogue.
Please note,  the same API can also be employed to create documents in a CKAN instance. this is out of the scope of this tutorial, please refer to the general [ckanapi]()

## Prerequisites

You need a python compiler, perferably python 2.7.

You can install the **ckanapi** with:

```
pip install ckanapi
```
or 
```
easy_install ckanapi
```

## Simple queries

First we need to connect to the CKAN end-point, here we connect to the B2FIND catalogue.

```python
from ckanapi import RemoteCKAN
ckan = RemoteCKAN("http://b2find.eudat.eu")
```

All searches are executed using the function *call_action*. This function uses the keywords from the CKAN API.
I.e. when you would use 

```
http://b2find.eudat.eu/api/3/action/<action>
```
in a browser or as input for curl you can translate it to

```python
ckan.call_action('<action>')
```
in python.

**Example** To list all communities (CKAN groups) you can use
```python
ckan.call_action('group_list')
```

**Excercise**
- List all tags (this results in a very long list, store the list appropriately). How many tags are there? (Aug 2016: 37604)

- List all entries (packages) in B2FIND, this command might take some time. How many could you find? (Aug 2016: 453646)


## Free text and facetted search

Facetted and free text searches can be executed with the keyword 'package_search' for which we need a second argument, denoting the values to search for.

For free text search we can use the following statement:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast'})
```
which returns a python dictionary.
We will have a closer look at the structure of the output later. For now use
```
response['count']
```
to get the number of hits.

For a facetted search we use the key 'fq':
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']
```

And of course we can combine queries:
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']
```

Recall, to search for a certain region we used:

```
curl http://b2find.eudat.eu/api/3/action/package_search -d '
    { "extras": 
    { "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0" } 
    }'
```
This translates to
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search', {
    "extras":{
        "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0"
        }
    }
)
response['count']
```
in python and we can combine this parameter easily with the two search parameters above, since they use different keys.

## Combined facetted search
We have seen how we can search across B2FIND with simple searches. But what do we have to do when we want to combine parameters for different facets?

Where is actually the problem?

**Exercise**
Compare the output of the two queries and explain what happens in python internally.
```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen", 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']

response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"groups:pdc",  "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen"})
response['count']
```
The query is the same, however, the order of the key-value pairs determines the result.
In fact the two queries are equivalent to:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', 'fq':'groups:pdc'})
response['count']

response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen"})
response['count']
```

### Solution 1
Inspect the output of a simple query and refine your query results using this structure.

### Solution 2
**TODO** Solution to combine facets.

### Solution 3 (by Heiner)
You are right, that multiple facets can not searched for by assigning a list of "fq":... in the data dictionary, because python will take only the last one in account. What you can do instaed is to have only one "fq" entry and combine all the facet:value pairs by AND in its value :
```sh
>>> response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{'q':'coast', "fq":"author:Dustin?Whalen and groups:pdc"})
>>> response['count']
17  
```

## The query response
Now let us have a closer look at the python dictionary such a query returns.

It consists of five entries.
```python
response.keys()
```

### Some basic statistics
We have already used the key *count*, which returns the number of documents found.
The key *sort* tells us how the documents are sorted in the output.
The key *results* contains all entries found. We will have a look at them later. First, we would like to draw your attention to *facet* and *search_facet*.
These two fields are empty for our queries above.
Let us inspect these two entrie for the query below:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search',{
    'fq':'Discipline:Linguistics',
    'facet.field':['author', 'Language'],
    'facet.limit':10
    })
```

We search for documents from the Discipline *linguistics* and we are interested in which *Languages* we find and which authors published the documents.
To do so, we give an extra parameter *facet.field* which is a python list and contains the names of two other facet *author* and *Discipline*.
The *facet.limit* gives the number of the top hits (default = 1).

We see that most of the documents are published in *Dutch*, followed by *German* and that the most active authors are *Sotaro Kita* and *Amanda Brown*.
Note, that the two facets in *facet.field* are not joint, i.e. the documents falling under *Dutch* do not necessarily have an author from the list of top 10 authors.

The result under 
```python
response['search_facets']
```
gives us the same extra information namely *count*, *display_name* and *name*.

We can use these two fields to retrieve some statistics on our result.

### The documents output
Now we will inspect the *results* field of our response. From the value in 
```python
response['sort']
```
we know that the most recent documents lead the list.
Let us inspect the first document:

```
doc = response['results'][0]
doc.keys()
```

With these keys python dictionary and list comprehensions you can refine your search results.
**Example: refine search**

Let us take the example:

> A scientist is interested in research data on polar coasts.
> She knows that the 'Polar Data Catalogue' offers access
> to this kind of data. Furthermore, she knows that her colleague Dustin published
> some interesting datasets about this topic in the past 26 years.
> In the first step she restricts the search result on research concerning coasts
> to the 20th century. In the second step she filters for studies on a particular
> coastal region at the northern boarder between Alaska and Canada.   

First, we search in CKAN directly:

```python
response = ckan.call_action('package_search', {
    "q":"coast",
    "fq":"groups:pdc",
    "extras":{
        "ext_bbox" : "-141.0,69.5,-140.0,70.0",
        "ext_startdate" : "1990-01-01T00:00:00Z", 
        "ext_enddate" : "2016-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
    'facet.field':['author', 'Discipline'],
    'facet.limit':10
    }
)
print "Number of entries:", response['count']
print "Top 10 authors and Disciplines \n", response['facets']
```

We see that all hits belong to the same *Community* and that there is an author *Dustin Whalen* who published several documents.

Let us filter these documents.
Since he published under the name *Whalen, Dustin* and *Dustin Whalen* we need to check for both names.

```python
results = [item for item in response['results'] 
    if 'Whalen, Dustin' in item['author'] or
    'Dustin Whalen' in item['author']]
len(results)
```
